crowdstrike_falcon_siem_connector_configuration.md, before:

# CrowdStrike Falcon SIEM Connector - Configuration Guide

## Prerequisite
> [!IMPORTANT]
> Before using this method, you'll have to contact [CrowdStrike Support](https://supportportal.crowdstrike.com/) to enable Streaming APIs on your CrowdStrike account.

<br>

## 1. Create an API Client for the CrowdStrike Falcon Streaming API
1.1. Navigate to _**Support > API Clients and Keys**_ on the [CrowdStrike Falcon](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/) Web Console

1.2. Click _**'Create API client'**_ under _**OAuth2 API Clients**_

1.3. Enter the _**CLIENT NAME**_ and insert a _**DESCRIPTION**_ if required

1.4. Set the _**API SCOPES**_ as follows and Click _**'Create'**_

| Scope         | Read                    |
| :------------ | :---------------------: |
| Event streams | :ballot_box_with_check: |

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Copy the _**'Client ID'**_ and _**'Secret'**_ to a safe place for later use  

<br>

## 2. Download the CrowdStrike Falcon SIEM Connector Installation Package
2.1. Navigate to _**Support > Tool Downloads**_ on the [CrowdStrike Falcon](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/) Web Console

2.2. Select the appropriate **'Falcon SIEM Connector'** installation package and Click on the :arrow_down: button under _**Actions**_

> [!NOTE]
> Supported OS (64-bit only)
> - CentOS/RHEL 7/8
> - Ubuntu 20

<br>

## 3. Install the Falcon SIEM Connector
3.1. Copy the Installation package downloaded in _**Step 2.2.**_ to the host that will be running the Falcon SIEM Connector

### CentOS/RHEL
```bash
sudo rpm -Uvh [InstallationPackageName]
```

### Ubuntu
```bash
sudo dpkg -i [InstallationPackageName]
```

> [!NOTE]
> The Falcon SIEM Connector installs in the `/opt/crowdstrike/` directory by default

<br>

## 4. Configure the Falcon SIEM Connector
4.1. Select the appropriate config file based on the output format supported by your SIEM 

> [!NOTE]
> Supported Output types
> - JSON (default)
> - Syslog
> - Common Event Format (CEF)
> - Log Event Extended Format (LEEF)

Preset Config files for each output type can be found in the following locations

| Output Type    | Config File                                         |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------------------------- |
| JSON \| Syslog | `/opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cfg`      |
| CEF            | `/opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cef.cfg`  |
| LEEF           | `/opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.leef.cfg` |

> [!TIP]
> You can replace the original config file `/opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cfg` with the preset config file for CEF `/opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cef.cfg` 

```bash
cp /opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cef.cfg /opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cfg
```

4.2. Edit the `/opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cfg` config file and paste the _**'Client ID'**_ and _**'Secret'**_ generated in _**Step 1.4.**_ accordingly

```bash
[Settings]
# API Client ID
client_id = <client_id>
# API Client Secret
client_secret =  <secret>
```

> [!NOTE]
> You may also need to edit the _**'api_url'**_ and _**'request_token_url'**_, depending on where your CrowdStrike instance is located.

| Instance | api_url / request_token_url      |
| :------- | :------------------------------- |
| US-1     | `api.crowdstrike.com`            |
| US-2     | `api.us-2.crowdstrike.com`       |
| US-GOV-1 | `api.lagger.gcw.crowdstrike.com` |
| EU-1     | `api.eu-1.crowdstrike.com`       |

```bash
[Settings]
api_url = https://<api_url>/sensors/entities/datafeed/v2
request_token_url = https://<request_token_url>/oauth2/token
```

4.3. Confirm the output format is set to _**'syslog'**_
```bash
[Settings]
# Output formats
# Supported formats are
#   1.syslog: will output syslog format with flat key=value pairs uses the mapping configuration below.
;             Use syslog format if CEF/LEEF output is required.
#   2.json: will output raw json format received from FalconHose API (default)
output_format = syslog
```

4.4. Configure Syslog forwarding
```bash
[Syslog]
send_to_syslog_server = true
host = <siem_log_collector_ip>/<siem_log_collector_hostname>
port = 514
protocol = tcp
```

> [!NOTE]
> Available options for Syslog Configuration

| Key                   | Value             |
| :-------------------- | :---------------: |
| send_to_syslog_server | `true` \| `false` |
| protocol              | `tcp` \| `udp`    |

4.5. Start the service
```bash
systemctl enable --now cs.falconhoseclientd.service
```

Commit message:

Updated docs for multiple CIDs

crowdstrike_falcon_siem_connector_configuration.md, after:

# CrowdStrike Falcon SIEM Connector - Configuration Guide

## Prerequisite
> [!IMPORTANT]
> Before using this method, you'll have to contact [CrowdStrike Support](https://supportportal.crowdstrike.com/) to enable Streaming APIs on your CrowdStrike account.

<br>

## 1. Create an API Client for the CrowdStrike Falcon Streaming API
1.1. Navigate to _**Support > API Clients and Keys**_ on the [CrowdStrike Falcon](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/) Web Console

1.2. Click _**'Create API client'**_ under _**OAuth2 API Clients**_

1.3. Enter the _**CLIENT NAME**_ and insert a _**DESCRIPTION**_ if required

1.4. Set the _**API SCOPES**_ as follows and Click _**'Create'**_

| Scope         | Read                    |
| :------------ | :---------------------: |
| Event streams | :ballot_box_with_check: |

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Copy the _**'Client ID'**_ and _**'Secret'**_ to a safe place for later use  

<br>

## 2. Download the CrowdStrike Falcon SIEM Connector Installation Package
2.1. Navigate to _**Support > Tool Downloads**_ on the [CrowdStrike Falcon](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/) Web Console

2.2. Select the appropriate **'Falcon SIEM Connector'** installation package and Click on the :arrow_down: button under _**Actions**_

> [!NOTE]
> Supported OS (64-bit only)
> - CentOS/RHEL 7/8
> - Ubuntu 20

<br>

## 3. Install the Falcon SIEM Connector
3.1. Copy the Installation package downloaded in _**Step 2.2.**_ to the host that will be running the Falcon SIEM Connector

### CentOS/RHEL
```bash
sudo rpm -Uvh [InstallationPackageName]
```

### Ubuntu
```bash
sudo dpkg -i [InstallationPackageName]
```

> [!NOTE]
> The Falcon SIEM Connector installs in the `/opt/crowdstrike/` directory by default

<br>

## 4. Configure the Falcon SIEM Connector
4.1. Select the appropriate config file based on the output format supported by your SIEM 

> [!NOTE]
> Supported Output types
> - JSON (default)
> - Syslog
> - Common Event Format (CEF)
> - Log Event Extended Format (LEEF)

Preset Config files for each output type can be found in the following locations

| Output Type    | Config File                                         |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------------------------- |
| JSON \| Syslog | `/opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cfg`      |
| CEF            | `/opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cef.cfg`  |
| LEEF           | `/opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.leef.cfg` |

> [!TIP]
> You can replace the original config file `/opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cfg` with the preset config file for CEF `/opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cef.cfg` 

```bash
cp /opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cef.cfg /opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cfg
```

4.2. Edit the `/opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cfg` config file and paste the _**'Client ID'**_ and _**'Secret'**_ generated in _**Step 1.4.**_ accordingly

```bash
[Settings]
# API Client ID
client_id = <client_id>
# API Client Secret
client_secret =  <secret>
```

> [!NOTE]
> You may also need to edit the _**'api_url'**_ and _**'request_token_url'**_, depending on where your CrowdStrike instance is located.

| Instance | api_url / request_token_url      |
| :------- | :------------------------------- |
| US-1     | `api.crowdstrike.com`            |
| US-2     | `api.us-2.crowdstrike.com`       |
| US-GOV-1 | `api.lagger.gcw.crowdstrike.com` |
| EU-1     | `api.eu-1.crowdstrike.com`       |

```bash
[Settings]
api_url = https://<api_url>/sensors/entities/datafeed/v2
request_token_url = https://<request_token_url>/oauth2/token
```

4.3. Confirm the output format is set to _**'syslog'**_
```bash
[Settings]
# Output formats
# Supported formats are
#   1.syslog: will output syslog format with flat key=value pairs uses the mapping configuration below.
;             Use syslog format if CEF/LEEF output is required.
#   2.json: will output raw json format received from FalconHose API (default)
output_format = syslog
```

4.4. Configure Syslog forwarding
```bash
[Syslog]
send_to_syslog_server = true
host = <siem_log_collector_ip>/<siem_log_collector_hostname>
port = 514
protocol = tcp
```

> [!NOTE]
> Available options for Syslog Configuration

| Key                   | Value             |
| :-------------------- | :---------------: |
| send_to_syslog_server | `true` \| `false` |
| protocol              | `tcp` \| `udp`    |

> [!NOTE]
> Installing the SIEM Connector for multiple CIDs
> For each CID you want to manage:
> Locate the sample config file for the output type you want.

        Syslog: /opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cfg
        CEF: /opt/crowdstrike/etc/cs.falconhoseclient.cef.cfg
> Copy that sample config file.

    Rename your copied file to use a unique label you choose.

        The label is used to help you recognize which CID it represents. The log files for this CID also use the same label.

        The file extension must remain .cfg, such as example_customer.cfg
> Move your copied file to this directory: **/opt/crowdstrike/config/**
> Repeat these steps for each CID that you want to add to the SIEM connector. Each CID's config file name must be unique.


4.5. Start the service
```bash
systemctl enable --now cs.falconhoseclientd.service
```
